= Frequently Asked Questions =

[[PageOutline(2-3,,inline)]]

----

== Using the service ==

=== May I use the screenshots of my own webpage for any purpose? ===

Yes, even for inclusion in closed, for-cost works. It would be nice if 
you'd mention that you used browsershots.org for the screenshots, but you 
don't have to.

=== Will this service remain free of charge? ===

Yes. For the foreseeable future, there will be free screenshots for 
everybody. You may have to wait in the queue when there's a lot of demand, 
or you can buy [http://browsershots.org/priority/ priority processing].

=== How long will my screenshots stay on the server? ===

Old screenshots will be deleted when they haven't been accessed for a 
while. How long exactly depends on the number of new screenshots per day. 
As of December 2007, we have enough disk space to keep screenshots for 
'''two weeks''' after the last visit. This means that if you post a link to 
your screenshots on your blog, and people look at them again and again, the 
screenshots will stay on the server forever. If you want to have your 
screenshots removed, send email to [mailto:johann@browsershots.org 
johann@browsershots.org].

=== Why are all browsers selected by default? ===

You're right that it would probably reduce the queue length if users would 
have to select each browser that they want to test. But the main goal of 
this project is to raise awareness for browser diversity. So I think it's 
better to have all browsers enabled by default and find other ways to 
reduce the length of the queue, like adding more screenshot factories. See 
HowToCreateNewShotFactory if you want to help.

----

== Troubleshooting ==

=== Why don't I get any screenshots? ===

If the queue is very long, your screenshot requests may expire before they 
can be processed. The default expiration time is 30 minutes, but you can 
extend it with a button on the website overview page. Also, if your 
requested configuration is too specific (e.g. specific Flash or Java 
version) there may not be matching screenshot factories all the time. Try 
the '''Don't care''' setting for quicker results.

=== My menu appears twice in the screenshots. Why? ===

That's not a problem with your page but a side effect of the multi-page 
merging. The screenshots are taken one screen at a time, and then merged 
together to produce a tall screenshot. If your menu or background doesn't 
scroll with the rest of the page, it will appear multiple times.

=== My screenshots are only the size of one screen, but my page is longer. 
===

Sometimes the automatic scrolling doesn't work. The reason could be that 
your page uses frames, or that it sets the keyboard focus to an input field 
with JavaScript.

=== Blocked by robots.txt ===

Browsershots respects the [http://www.robotstxt.org/orig.html robots.txt 
standard]. If you want, you can explicitly allow Browsershots by adding a 
section like this to the '''robots.txt''' file on your server:

{{{
User-agent: Browsershots
Disallow:
}}}

Some pages on browsershots.org are also protected, mainly to keep 
screenshot result pages out of search engines (see PrivacyPolicy).

----

== Running a screenshot factory ==

=== I don't have Python on my computer. Can I still run a ShotFactory? ===

Python is included with recent versions of Linux and Mac OS, and on Windows 
it should be easy to install.

If you really can't get Python to run on your computer, you could write 
your own screenshot factory in your favorite programming language, 
according to the FactoryInterface specification.

=== Where can I get a username/password for running a ShotFactory? ===

See HowToCreateNewShotFactory. The factory password is your user account 
password on browsershots.org.

=== Can I use my computer while the ShotFactory is running? ===

On Windows, the screenshot factory program uses the desktop, so you will 
have to stop it when you want to use the computer.

On Linux, the program runs in the background and uses a VNC server for the 
screen. You can use your computer at the same time, and if the system load 
is over a configurable limit, the screenshot factory program will stop 
making screenshots until the system is idle again. The default load limit 
is 1.0, but you can change it with the command line option -l.

On Mac, it's possible to run the screenshot factory in the background, 
using fast user switching and a separate user account.

=== xmlrpclib.!ProtocolError: <!ProtocolError for browsershots.org/RPC2: 
404 Not Found> ===

That's because the /RPC2 interface was for the old version 0.3 of 
Browsershots which moved to http://v03.browsershots.org/ for historic 
reference. The current version 0.4 uses http://api.browsershots.org/xmlrpc/ 
for the screenshot factory API. You should install a package with "0.4" in 
the name, or check out the [http://svn.browsershots.org/trunk/shotfactory/ 
trunk] from Subversion.

=== !RuntimeError: unsafe command 'C:\progra~1\mozill~2\firefox.exe' (on 
Windows) ===

For security reasons, the browser command must not contain whitespace or 
start with a drive letter. The purpose of this mechanism is to avoid 
commands like `format C:` or `C:\rootkit.exe`. The best solution on Windows 
is to install the browser in a subdirectory of the `shotfactory` folder, 
e.g. `shotfactory\firefox30`, then enter `firefox30\firefox.exe` in the 
browser command field.

=== !RuntimeError: unsafe command '/usr/bin/opera -newpage' (on Linux or 
Mac OS) ===

For security reasons, the browser command must not contain whitespace or 
start with a slash. The purpose of this mechanism is to avoid commands like 
`rm -rf /` or `/tmp/rootkit`. The best solution on Linux or Mac OS is to 
create a simple shell script with your desired options, make it executable 
(`chmod a+x`), put it somewhere on your PATH and then use the name of the 
shell script as the browser command. For example, you could save the 
following in `/usr/local/bin/opera-newpage` and then enter `opera-newpage` 
in the browser command field:

{{{
#!sh
#!/bin/sh
/usr/bin/opera -newpage "$@"
}}}

=== VNC server fails to start: Fatal server error: Couldn't add screen ===

This is possibly because you enabled 32 bits per pixel on the factory 
details page, but this bit depth is not supported by the VNC server. Remove 
the 32 bpp setting and use 24 bpp instead. You can try to run 
`shotfactory.py -vvv` (for very very verbose output) to see the exact 
commands that the shotfactory script is trying to run.

----

== Background info ==

=== How did you come up with the idea? ===

I was inspired by the following existing services. One night in November 
2004, I went to bed too early, and while I was lying awake, suddenly the 
distributed volunteer idea struck me.

 * [http://www.danvine.com/icapture/ Daniel Vine's iCapture]
 * [http://fundisom.com/g5/ lixlpixel Safari Screenshot Generator]
 * [http://www.browsercam.com/ BrowserCam]

=== How long has Browsershots been around? ===

Public beta test started in February 2005 
([http://v02.browsershots.org/blog/2005/02/ old blog entry]). The first 
public release (milestone:0.1.0) was in March 2005 
([http://freshmeat.net/projects/browsershots/?branch_id=56805&release_id=189
981 article on freshmeat]). See the 
[http://trac.browsershots.org/roadmap?show=all roadmap] for a release 
history. The project was rewritten completely between milestone:0.2.6 and 
milestone:0.3-alpha1, and again for milestone:0.4-beta1 (transition to the 
Django framework).

=== Where do you get all those different machines? ===

This is the one feature that sets this project apart from similar online 
services. The screenshots are made on distributed computers that are run by 
volunteers. You can see a list of [http://browsershots.org/factories/ 
active screenshot factories]. Most of these are normal desktop machines 
with domestic broadband internet. Distributed community processing ensures 
O/S and browser diversity, but it makes quality assurance much harder. See 
also DistributedArchitecture and FactoryInterface.